So the problem is that some of you,
some of your use cases,
will actually say, hey, I wanna still
execute code in the background.
It's actually, in fact,
something that some projects and
some PM sometimes they, but I wanna follow
the user wherever it goes with my PWA.
Of course, this is limited, okay, so
we are going to see here what
we can do in the background.
We are not a native app.
We're not going through an app store
review process on mobile, for example.
So the browser will never give us infinite
background execution rights, okay?
But there are still some
things that we can do, and
that's what we're going to cover today,
okay?
So options available today,
as a summary first.
You can go to the Play Store,
publish a PWA for Android and
then you can have your
website on one side, and
you can have native code that can
execute code in the background.
Because it's going through the App Store
review process, you have full power, okay?
But yeah, it's not 100% a web app, okay?
On Android you can create a service and
also many other things, but
that service can actually
execute Kotlin or
Java code in the background,
okay, even every ten seconds.
Something similar can be
done with an abstract PWA.
We're not going to cover this because
we are web developers here, so
we are not making native code today,
at least.
And we will cover service
worker background APIs, and
these are some additions
available on top of the service
worker stack that will let us
execute code in the background,
in any of the background situations
that we mentioned before, okay?
And we will see later in which ones.
But again, the background means that when
it's hidden, and when my timers are down
or when everything is dead,
I don't know, that's the background.
So we will see how we
can execute code there.
And also recently, we have another
use case for background execution,
recently, I'm talking about
in the past year or less.
So on every browser today we
have new APIs for audio and
video playing in the background.
So if your web app is playing audio or
video,
now we have ways to keep our web
app running in the background,
because we need to still work
on that background audio.
If it's live playing, typically,
sometimes we can run our own
JavaScript code that will start
downloading the new piece of audio or
video that needs to be sent to the player.
So in this case, we will see,
and we have an example later so
we can test this on our computers,
on our code, how that works.
And even there are some tricks
that I will show you later,
that's on desktop actually,
that maybe you don't have video playing.
You don't have video on your website, but
you can still trick the browser
that you have video, okay?
You can render something that maybe
it's not a video, it can be a game,
it can be a DOM element,
a cCanvas, wherever.
And you can be playing that as a video and
then you can execute code
in the background, okay?
That trick works only on desktop, okay?
Make sense?
So those are the things that,
I mean, the last two are the things
that we will be coding later.
For the rest you need to learn Kotlin or
Swift to actually inject
your PWA inside and
then have background execution rights.
But even with that on iOS,
background execution rights are granted
per basis and it's not so simple.
Like, yeah, I wanna execute code anytime,
it's not so simple on iOS.
Any question, do you have any question?
>> I do.
>> So
these are related to mobile applications.
And do we have-
>> The first two, I'm sorry, for
the last two, it's actually multi
platform, so it's desktop as well.
But these two are actually mostly mobile.
I'm saying mostly, because now,
for example, on Mac,
you can actually run iOS and
iPad applications.
It depends on the Mac you have,
if you have a DM1, blah blah blah.
Well, not the Google Play Store,
actually, but if you take your Android
application and you publish your Android
application in the Amazon App Store,
it appears in Windows 11,
Microsoft Store on desktop as well.
So it's kind of desktop as well, okay?
To be honest, at least on Windows 11,
the Android runtime,
that background thing, it's tricky, so
it's tricky, but anyway, it's there.
So it's also desktop.
Again, it's not a direct desktop solution
but it may work on desktop as well.
On desktop,
if you care about desktop, of course,
you always have the way to create
a hybrid for desktop as well, okay?
And then you use any of
the frameworks available out there
to create desktop web applications, okay?
And then you can execute code in node.js,
okay,
on the desktop and
then the UI is your web app.
I mean ,VS code or Slack,
they're using those techniques.
So they are websites, web apps, but they
are wrapped within a native container.
Electron, for example, is one of the well
known frameworks to do that, okay?
But on those situation we are getting
out of the web platform for a minute.